Add docs for Ordered PubSub Topics (#712)
encoredev/encore: docs/primitives/pubsub.md

</Callout>

### Ordered Topics

Topics are unordered by default, meaning that messages can be delivered in any order. This allows for better throughput on the topic as messages can be processed in parallel. However, in some cases, messages must be delivered in the order they were published for a given entity.

To create an ordered topic, configure the topic's `OrderingAttribute` to match the `pubsub-attr` tag on one of the top-level fields of the event type. This field ensures that messages delivered to the same subscriber are delivered in the order of publishing for that specific field value. Messages with a different value on the ordering attribute are delivered in an unspecified order.

To maintain topic order, messages with the same ordering key aren't delivered until the earliest message is processed or dead-lettered, potentially causing delays due to [head-of-line blocking](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Head-of-line_blocking). Mitigate processing issues by ensuring robust logging and alerts, and appropriate subscription retry policies.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

<Callout type="info">

The `OrderingAttribute` currently has no effect in local environments.

</Callout>

```

To create an ordered topic, configure the topic's `OrderingAttribute` to match the `pubsub-attr` tag on one of the top-level fields of the event type. This field ensures that messages delivered to the same subscriber are delivered in the order of publishing for that specific field value. Messages with a different value on the ordering attribute are delivered in an unspecified order.

To maintain topic order, messages with the same ordering key aren't delivered until the earliest message is processed or dead-lettered, potentially causing delays due to [head-of-line blocking](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Head-of-line_blocking). Mitigate processing issues by ensuring robust logging and alerts, and appropriate subscription retry policies.

#### Throughput limitations

Each cloud provider enforces certain throughput limitations for ordered topics:
- **AWS:** 300 messages per second for the topic (see [AWS SQS Quotas](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSSimpleQueueService/latest/SQSDeveloperGuide/quotas-messages.html)).
- **GCP:** 1 MBps for each ordering key (See [GCP Pub/Sub Resource Limits](https://cloud.google.com/pubsub/quotas#resource_limits))

> 
> <Callout type="info">
> 
> The `OrderingAttribute` currently has no effect in local environments.
> 
> </Callout>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

To create an ordered topic, configure the topic's `OrderingAttribute` to match the `pubsub-attr` tag on one of the top-level fields of the event type. This field ensures that messages delivered to the same subscriber are delivered in the order of publishing for that specific field value. Messages with a different value on the ordering attribute are delivered in an unspecified order.

To maintain topic order, messages with the same ordering key aren't delivered until the earliest message is processed or dead-lettered, potentially causing delays due to [head-of-line blocking](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Head-of-line_blocking). Mitigate processing issues by ensuring robust logging and alerts, and appropriate subscription retry policies.

<Callout type="info">

The `OrderingAttribute` currently has no effect in local environments.

</Callout>

#### Throughput limitations

Each cloud provider enforces certain throughput limitations for ordered topics:

> - **AWS:** 300 messages per second for the topic (see [AWS SQS Quotas](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSSimpleQueueService/latest/SQSDeveloperGuide/quotas-messages.html)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **AWS:** 300 messages per second for the topic (see [AWS SQS Quotas](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSSimpleQueueService/latest/SQSDeveloperGuide/quotas-messages.html))
```

- **GCP:** 1 MBps for each ordering key (See [GCP Pub/Sub Resource Limits](https://cloud.google.com/pubsub/quotas#resource_limits))

#### Ordered topic example

```go
package example

import (
	"context"
	"encore.dev/pubsub"
)

type CartEvent struct {
	ShoppingCartID int `pubsub-attr:"cart_id"`
	Event          string
}

var CartEvents = pubsub.NewTopic[*CartEvent]("cart-events", pubsub.TopicConfig{
	DeliveryGuarantee: pubsub.AtLeastOnce,
	OrderingAttribute: "cart_id",
})

func Example(ctx context.Context) error {

> 	// The following events will be delivered in order as they all have the same
> 	// shopping cart ID
> 	CartEvents.Publish(ctx, &CartEvent{ShoppingCartID: 1, Event: "item_added"})
> 	CartEvents.Publish(ctx, &CartEvent{ShoppingCartID: 1, Event: "checkout_started"})
> 	CartEvents.Publish(ctx, &CartEvent{ShoppingCartID: 1, Event: "checkout_completed"})
> 
> 	// However this event could be delievered at any point as it has a different shopping
> 	// cart ID
> 	CartEvents.Publish(ctx, &CartEvent{ShoppingCartID: 2, Event: "item_added"})

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	// These are delivered in order as they all have the same shopping cart ID
	CartEvents.Publish(ctx, &CartEvent{ShoppingCartID: 1, Event: "item_added"})
	CartEvents.Publish(ctx, &CartEvent{ShoppingCartID: 1, Event: "checkout_started"})
	CartEvents.Publish(ctx, &CartEvent{ShoppingCartID: 1, Event: "checkout_completed"})

	// This event may be delivered at any point as it has a different shopping cart ID
	CartEvents.Publish(ctx, &CartEvent{ShoppingCartID: 2, Event: "item_added"})
```

- **GCP:** 1 MBps for each ordering key (See [GCP Pub/Sub Resource Limits](https://cloud.google.com/pubsub/quotas#resource_limits))

<Callout type="info">

The `OrderingAttribute` currently has no effect in local environments.

</Callout>

```go
package example

import (
	"context"
	"encore.dev/pubsub"
)

type CartEvent struct {
	ShoppingCartID int `pubsub-attr:"cart_id"`
	Event          string
}

var CartEvents = pubsub.NewTopic[*CartEvent]("cart-events", pubsub.TopicConfig{
	DeliveryGuarantee: pubsub.AtLeastOnce,
	OrderingAttribute: "cart_id",
})

func Example(ctx context.Context) error {
	// The following events will be delivered in order as they all have the same
	// shopping cart ID
	CartEvents.Publish(ctx, &CartEvent{ShoppingCartID: 1, Event: "item_added"})
	CartEvents.Publish(ctx, &CartEvent{ShoppingCartID: 1, Event: "checkout_started"})
	CartEvents.Publish(ctx, &CartEvent{ShoppingCartID: 1, Event: "checkout_completed"})

	// However this event could be delievered at any point as it has a different shopping
	// cart ID
	CartEvents.Publish(ctx, &CartEvent{ShoppingCartID: 2, Event: "item_added"})
}
```

> 
> </Toggle>
> 
> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

To maintain topic order, messages with the same ordering key aren't delivered until the earliest message is processed or dead-lettered, potentially causing delays due to [head-of-line blocking](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Head-of-line_blocking). Mitigate processing issues by ensuring robust logging and alerts, and appropriate subscription retry policies.

#### Throughput limitations

Each cloud provider enforces certain throughput limitations for ordered topics:
- **AWS:** 300 messages per second for the topic (see [AWS SQS Quotas](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSSimpleQueueService/latest/SQSDeveloperGuide/quotas-messages.html)).
- **GCP:** 1 MBps for each ordering key (See [GCP Pub/Sub Resource Limits](https://cloud.google.com/pubsub/quotas#resource_limits))

<Callout type="info">

The `OrderingAttribute` currently has no effect in local environments.

</Callout>

> <Toggle label="Example Ordered Topic">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

</Callout>

### Ordered Topics

By default, topics are unordered, meaning that messages can be delivered in any order. This allows for better throughput
on the topic as messages can be processed in parallel. However in some cases it's important that messages are delivered
in the order they were published for a given entity, such as a user or shopping cart.

To create an ordered topic, you need to configure the topic's `OrderingAttribute` to match the `pubsub-attr` tag on one
of the top level fields of the event type. This field will ensure that messages delivered to the same subscriber will
be delivered in the order of publishing for that specific field value. Messages with a different value on the ordering
attribute can be delivered in any order.

<Callout type="warning">

> By enabling ordered topics, you create a head-of-line blocking problem. This is because subsequent messages for the
> same ordering key will not be delivered until a message is successfully processed or dead-lettered. As such, it's
> strongly recommended to only use ordered topics when absolutely necessary and to ensure that your subscription configuration
> has a sensible retry policy which will dead-letter messages that fail to process within a timeframe that makes sense for
> your use case.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With an ordered topic subequent messages for the same ordering key are not delivered until the earliest
message (for that ordering key) is successfully processed or dead-lettered. This can lead to a
[[head-of-line blocking](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Head-of-line_blocking)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Head-of-line_blocking) problem,
and cause unexpected delays in message processing. Make sure you have sufficient logging and alerting in
place to handle processing issues, and make sure the retry policy on each subscription is configured
appropriate. In general, use ordered topics with care and consider whether the benefits outweigh these downsides.
```

</Callout>

<Toggle label="Example Ordered Topic">

```go

> package example

Reviewer 2: Fix the indentation in this file

import (
	"context"
    "encore.dev/pubsub"
)

type CartEvent struct {
    ShoppingCartID int `pubsub-attr:"cart_id"`
	Event          string
}

var CartEvents = pubsub.NewTopic[*CartEvent]("cart-events", pubsub.TopicConfig{
    DeliveryGuarantee: pubsub.AtLeastOnce,
    OrderingAttribute: "cart_id",
})

func Example(ctx context.Context) error {
	// The following events will be delivered in order as they all have the same
	// shopping cart ID
	CartEvents.Publish(ctx, &CartEvent{ShoppingCartID: 1, Event: "item_added"})
	CartEvents.Publish(ctx, &CartEvent{ShoppingCartID: 1, Event: "item_removed"})
	CartEvents.Publish(ctx, &CartEvent{ShoppingCartID: 1, Event: "checkout_started"})

> 	CartEvents.Publish(ctx, &CartEvent{ShoppingCartID: 1, Event: "checkout_completed"})

Reviewer 2: The event order here is pretty senseless; re-order them to make more sense?

Author: How do you mean? A user interacted with a shopping cart and then started to checkout.
